# Fingerspelling Detection Model
*This project utilizes coordinate data from a Kaggle database provided by Google*  

## Introduction
The premise of this project is to train a model that can increase the speed and accuracy of ASL fingerspelling transcription. The dataset is comprised of large parquet files that were generated by uploading video data to MediaPipe, which then tracks 1000s of nodes over the course of the video and provides coordinate data for each node for numerous frames. The dataset is large and comprehensive, taking video data from many participants, each given approximately 100 phrases to fingerspell. The train.csv file provides participant ID as well as the phrase being conveyed, which can then be connected to a respective parquet file. For the purposes of this preliminary model, I have uploaded a singular parquet file, but more data can be found on the official Kaggle Competition page.

## Configuration and Installation
To utilize this code, you will need the files provided. Additional files can be found using this link: https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/asl-fingerspelling/data

## Contact Information
If you have any questions or suggestions for this project, please feel free to contact me at shivanip098@gmail.com !

## Challenges
The biggest challenge faced with this project was the sheer amount of data involved. I attempted to lighten the load by discarding the data points that were not hand or facial landmarks. To my understanding, ASL fingerspelling is largely hand-signed and mouthed. I also reduced the number of frames observed by 1/3 because even 20 character phrases had over 150 frames. Because there were so many datapoints, it was difficult to find additional ways to observe the data. Ideally, I would have the computing power necessary to calculate and observe vectors within each hand and facial landmark group. I also would have liked to go through each of the participants' contributions to determine which hand they are using. By only focusing on each participant's dominant signing hand, I believe the accuracy of the model could be vastly improved.

The other challenge faced was that fingerspelling is not timed equally. Phrases were fingerspelled character by character, but because each one takes a different amount of time or number of frames to form, and because there are so many inbetween frames, it was difficult to train the model to identify the characters in an impactful way.

## Credits
Dataset provided by Kaggle and Google